README.md, before:

# OSDev
A basic operating system project built entirely from scratch.

### Dependencies for building

`virtualbox, gcc, nasm, make`
*ld version must be <= 2.34*

### Makefile rules

- `make all` - builds the operating system disk image (10MB) in raw binary mode only
- `make raw` - (same as make all) builds the operating system disk image (10MB) in raw binary mode only
- `make convert_vmdk` - converts the raw binary OS image into vmdk mode, leaving the raw binary image
- `make clean` - clean up build files and executables
- `make run` - runs the system in QEMU (no compilation/building is done)
- `make ESFS_raw_write` - builds the program required for writing files from host machine to ESFS on raw binary disk

### How to copy files from host machine to OS virtual hard disk

I have written a program that is able to copy the exact bytes of a file on your host machine to the virtual hard disk of the OS, to compile it view the "Makefile rules" section. The program is only able to write data to a raw binary virtual disk (os-image.bin). DO NOT TRY TO WRITE TO os-image.vmdk.

Usage:
- `make clean raw ESFS_raw_write`
- `ESFS_raw_write os-image.bin file_name_in_ESFS file_name_on_local_machine`
- `make convert_vmdk`

You will now be able to either boot the .bin image in QEMU or the .vmdk image in Virtualbox/VMware and it will contain the file(s) which you have copied onto the disk. Keep in mind that once a disk is converted to .vmdk mode, it can no longer be written to by ESFS_raw_write.

### Writing and compiling an executable to run on the OS

The kernel shell provides an `exec` command which is used to execute a binary executable which is stored as a file on the virtual disk. (I would recommend putting program code into the external_programs directory)

- Write the program in C, you will be able to include any kernel API that is available. View the header files inside the kernel directory to see the options.

- Compilation can be done through the simple `compile_program` script in the format `./compile_program <input_file.c> <output_file>` it is important that you execute the script while being in the directory that the script is in. The script will compile your program together will all available kernel API.

- Writing your program to the OS virtual disk can be done in the same way as writing a standard text file, the procedure is described in the "How to copy files from host machine to OS virtual hard disk" section.

### Automake script

The automake script is easy to use, it will build the operating system as well as all *.c files in external_programs/ and write the executable binaries to the operating system's virtual drive, an option will be provided to write any additional files to the disk before conversion to VMDK format.

Commit message:

Removed ld_patch and updated README.md on how to use it (it is now in a separate repository)

README.md, after:

# SystemZero
A basic operating system project built entirely from scratch.

## IMPORTANT NOTICE FOR BUILDING FROM SOURCE
If your system's LD version is greater than 2.34 (check by running `ld --version`), the build process will fail because of a regression bug in LD. I have created a repository containing GNU binutils version 2.34 at https://github.com/z3r0flag/binutils-2_34.git 

To build binutils 2.34:
- `cd <binutils repository root dir>`
- `./configure`
- `make`

To use LD 2.34 in build process for SystemZero:
- `mkdir <SystemZero repository root dir>/ld_patch`
- `cp <binutils repository root dir>/ld/* <SystemZero repository root dir>/ld_patch/`
- Edit `Makefile` in SystemZero root and set `LD := ./ld_patch/ld-new ${LD_FLAGS}`

DONE! Run `./automake` and test it out.

### Dependencies for building

`virtualbox, gcc, nasm, make`
*ld version must be <= 2.34*

### Makefile rules

- `make all` - builds the operating system disk image (10MB) in raw binary mode only
- `make raw` - (same as make all) builds the operating system disk image (10MB) in raw binary mode only
- `make convert_vmdk` - converts the raw binary OS image into vmdk mode, leaving the raw binary image
- `make clean` - clean up build files and executables
- `make run` - runs the system in QEMU (no compilation/building is done)
- `make ESFS_raw_write` - builds the program required for writing files from host machine to ESFS on raw binary disk

### How to copy files from host machine to OS virtual hard disk

I have written a program that is able to copy the exact bytes of a file on your host machine to the virtual hard disk of the OS, to compile it view the "Makefile rules" section. The program is only able to write data to a raw binary virtual disk (os-image.bin). DO NOT TRY TO WRITE TO os-image.vmdk.

Usage:
- `make clean raw ESFS_raw_write`
- `ESFS_raw_write os-image.bin file_name_in_ESFS file_name_on_local_machine`
- `make convert_vmdk`

You will now be able to either boot the .bin image in QEMU or the .vmdk image in Virtualbox/VMware and it will contain the file(s) which you have copied onto the disk. Keep in mind that once a disk is converted to .vmdk mode, it can no longer be written to by ESFS_raw_write.

### Writing and compiling an executable to run on the OS

The kernel shell provides an `exec` command which is used to execute a binary executable which is stored as a file on the virtual disk. (I would recommend putting program code into the external_programs directory)

- Write the program in C, you will be able to include any kernel API that is available. View the header files inside the kernel directory to see the options.

- Compilation can be done through the simple `compile_program` script in the format `./compile_program <input_file.c> <output_file>` it is important that you execute the script while being in the directory that the script is in. The script will compile your program together will all available kernel API.

- Writing your program to the OS virtual disk can be done in the same way as writing a standard text file, the procedure is described in the "How to copy files from host machine to OS virtual hard disk" section.

### Automake script

The automake script is easy to use, it will build the operating system as well as all *.c files in external_programs/ and write the executable binaries to the operating system's virtual drive, an option will be provided to write any additional files to the disk before conversion to VMDK format.
